# mimicDetector
This pipeline is a tool to narrow the search for mimicry from millions of potential regions to a quantity more manageable for manual curation. 

Running the pipeline
First, data selection is important. As the adage goes, “garbage in, garbage out.” Appropriate controls include species that are more closely related to the pathogen than to the host, since if the control set includes species that are more closely related to the host than to the pathogen, it is likely that this will remove host taxon-specific homologous sequences. 
After data selection, the pipeline filtering thresholds can be modified to further tailor the analysis. Any adjustment to the filtering thresholds will either increase or decrease the final number of mimicry candidates, the desirability of which will likely depend on the species of interest. For example, if the pathogen species is only distantly related to its host, decreasing stringency in certain filtering steps to increase the number of final mimicry candidates may be desired. Conversely, if the pathogen and host are closely related (i.e. helminths and humans), or if the number of mimicry candidates is unmanageable, an increase in stringency during certain filtering steps may be desired.
 
To increase the number of mimicry candidates obtained, the first parameter change recommended is the solvent accessibility threshold (q). Decreasing this value will increase the number of candidates in the final results without compromising quality (i.e. increased low complexity sequences). A q threshold greater than 0.5 indicates that the majority of the mimicry region is accessible for protein-protein interactions. However, low mean solvent accessibility for a given mimicry candidate may indicate that fewer residues are involved in mimicry interactions, so these candidates should be further screened for similarity between the accessible residues. Changing either E-value (e) or LCR content (l) thresholds will affect the quality of the final mimicry candidates. Decreasing l will allow for more mimicry candidates that overlap low complexity sequences in the final results. Increasing e will have a similar effect by permitting sequences with reduced statistical relevance. 
Decreasing either bits difference threshold (b) or k-mer size (k) is not recommended. Lowering b will result in mimicry candidates closely related to a control, and decreasing k will eliminate any statistical relevance of the BLASTP E-values. However, k may be increased at the expense of increased time and memory usage, though this should not be done without also adjusting b and e. To decrease in the number of final mimicry candidates, increasing b and/or decreasing e is recommended. If the pathogen is closely related to host, we recommend increasing b to ensure greater distinction between the potential mimic and a control sequence. 
